#PROJECT SUMMARY
##Shweta Srikanth
Every dog owner likes to believe that their dog is the smartest, most intelligent and most obedient of them all. But could some innate physical attributes of the dog actually be related to their intelligence or obedience? A cursory glance through the national rankings of dog breeds based on their obedience trials shows that large sized dogs like German Sheperds, Golden Retrievers, Border Collies etc dominated the top ranks. Inspite of being very popular, smaller breeds like Beagles, French Bulldogs and Yokshire Terriers do not show up in the top 100 list for obedience. On the other hand giant breeds such as Great Danes and Rottweilers also do not show up in the top ranks either. This leads to an interesting question- Is the size of the dog related to its intelligence or obedience?

The dataset I have picked to help me further explore this question is a dog breed dataset extracted from the American Kennal Club Webiste. The dataset consists of 20 features, which are textural, numerical and categorical data. The dataset has information on 277 different dog breeds of varying sizes. The attributes/ features described in the dataset are description, temperament, popularity, height, weight, life expectancy, group (categorzied into one of the 9 breed groups assigned by American Kennal Club), grooming level, energy level, shedding level, trainability and demanour. 

To begin with an exploratory data analysis can performed to understand the dataset. Our main motive here is to understand if there is an association between intelligence/ obedience with certain physical attributes of a breed. In our dataset, trainability and demanor could be considered as the 2 variables which indicate the intelligence and obedience of the breed. The question I would like to first explore is if there is a link between the size of the breed with obedience. For this purpose, the dog’s height and weight could be used to assess if there is a correlation with trainability and demanour. Association of other factors such as energy level, grooming and shedding level and expectancy with trainability and demanour can also be studied. 

Additionally I would also try to assess if there is a correlation between the group that the breed comes under and size, expectancy, grooming level, shedding level and energy level. This would give insight into what features are used in categorizing different breeds into their assigned groups. Another interesting question to explore, is what attributes determine the popularity of a breed.  An analysis can be performed to assess if the popularity of a breed is linked to its size, group, expecatancy and grooming, shedding levels and energy levels. It would be very informative to understand what factors people pick as top priority when choosing a breed. 

Finally, it would be very interesting to try to build a model that could predict a breed’s trainability and demanour based on certain variables such as size, grooming and shedding level, group, energy level, expectancy. With the dataset in hand, several intriguing questions about dog breeds and their intelligence can be answered.
